---
layout: default
title: Migrating to Ginkgo V2
---

[Ginkgo 2.0](#711) is a major release that adds substantial new functionality and removes/moves existing functionality.  **Please provide feedback, concerns, questions, etc. on issue [#711](#711).**

This document serves as a changelog and migration guide for users migrating from Ginkgo 1.x to 2.0.  The intent is that the migration will take minimal user effort.

The work on 2.0 is tracked in this [Pivotal Tracker backlog](https://www.pivotaltracker.com/n/projects/2493102).  The original 2.0 proposal is [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1h28ZknXRsTLPNNiOjdHIO-F2toCzq4xoZDXbfYaBdoQ/edit#heading=h.mzgqmkg24xoo) however this is starting to grow stale.  The tracker backlog is the most authoritative version of the roadmap.

The current timeline for completion of 2.0 looks like:

- Early April 2021: first public release of 2.0, deprecation warnings land in v1.
- May 2021: first beta/rc of 2.0 with most new functionality in place.
- June/July 2021: 2.0 ships and fully replaces the 1.x codebase on master.

But is, of course, subject to change ;)

# Additions and Improvements

## Major Additions and Improvements

### Interrupt Behavior
Interrupt behavior is substantially improved, sending an interrupt signal will now:
	- immediately cause the current test to unwind.  Ginkgo will run any `AfterEach` blocks, then immediately skip all remaining tests, then run the `AfterSuite` block.  
	- emit information about which node Ginkgo was running when the interrupt signal was recevied.
	- emit as much information as possible about the interrupted test (e.g. `GinkgoWriter` contents, `stdout` and `stderr` context).
	- emit a stack trace of every running goroutine at the moment of interruption.

Previously, sending a second interrupt signal would cause Ginkgo to exit immediately.  With the improved interrupt behavior this is no longer necessary and Ginkgo will not exit until the test suite has unwound and completed.

### CLI Flags
Ginkgo's CLI flags have been rewritten to provide clearer, better-organized documentation.  In addition, Ginkgo v1 was mishandling several go cli flags.  This is now resolved with clear distinctions between flags intended for compilation time and run-time.  As a result, users can now generate `memprofile`s and `cpuprofile`s using the Ginkgo CLI.  Ginkgo 2.0 will automatically merge profiles generated by running tests in parallel (i.e. across multiple processes) and will allow you to choose between having profiles stored in individual package directories, or collected in one place using the `-output-dir` flag.  See [Changed: Profiling Support](#changed-profiling-support) for more details.

### Expanded GinkgoWriter Functionality
The `GinkgoWriter` is used to write output that is only made visible if a test fails, or if the user runs in verbose mode with `ginkgo -v`.

In Ginkgo 2.0 `GinkgoWriter` now has:
	- Three new convenience methods `GinkgoWriter.Print(a ...interface{})`, `GinkgoWriter.Println(a ...interface{})`, `GinkgoWriter.Printf(format string, a ...interface{})`  These are equivalent to calling the associated `fmt.Fprint*` functions and passing in `GinkgoWriter`.
	- The ability to tee to additional writers.  `GinkgoWriter.TeeTo(writer)` will send any future data written to `GinkgoWriter` to the passed in `writer`.  You can attach multiple `io.Writer`s for `GinkgoWriter` to tee to.  You can remove all attached writers with `GinkgoWriter.ClearTeeWriters()`.

	Note that _all_ data written to `GinkgoWriter` is immediately forwarded to attached tee writers regardless of where a test passes or fails.

### Improved: Reporting Infrastructure
- main usecase was junit and teamcity.
- this is now easier
- limitation of default reporters + parallel.  this is now much simpler.  use ReportAfterSuite and ReportAfterEach.
- for users with existing custom reporters, migration guide is below

### Improved: Profiling Support
Ginkgo V1 was incorrectly handling Go test's various profiling flags (e.g. -cpuprofile, -memprofile).  This has been fixed in V2.  In fact, V2 can capture profiles for multiple packages (e.g. ginkgo -r -cpuprofile=profile.out will work).

When generating profiles for `-cpuprofile=FILE`, `-blockprofile=FILE`, `-memprofile=FILE`, `-mutexprofile=FILE`, and `-execution-trace=FILE` (Ginkgo's alias for `go test -test.trace`) the following rules apply:

- If `-output-dir` is not set: each profile generates a file named `$FILE` in the directory of each package under test.
- If `-output-dir` is set: each profile generates a file in the specified `-output-dir` directory. named `PACKAGE_NAME_$FILE`

### Improved: Cover Support

Coverage reporting is much improved in 2.0:

- `ginkgo -cover -p` now emits code coverage after the test completes, just like `ginkgo -cover` does in series.
- When running across mulitple packages (e.g. `ginkgo -r -cover`) ginkgo will now emit a composite coverage statistic that represents the total coverage across all test suites run.  (Note that this is disabled if you set `-keep-separate-coverprofiles`).

In addition, Ginkgo now follows the following rules when generating cover profiles using `-cover` and/or `-coverprofile=FILE`:

- By default, a single cover profile is generated at `FILE` (or `coverprofile.out` if `-cover-profile` is not set but `-cover` is set).  This includes the merged results of all the cover profiles reported by each suite.
- If `-output-dir` is set: the `FILE` is placed in the specified `-output-dir` directory.
- If `-keep-separate-coverprofiles` is set, the individual coverprofiles generated by each package are not merged and, instead, a file named `FILE` will appear in each package directory.  If `-output-dir` is _also_ set these files are copied into the `-output-dir` directory and namespaced with `PACKAGE_NAME_{FILE}`.

## Minor Additions and Improvements
- `BeforeSuite` and `AfterSuite` no longer run if all tests in a suite are skipped.
- Ginkgo can now catch several common user gotchas and emit a helpful error.
- Error output is clearer and consistently links to relevant sections in the documentation.
- Test randomization is now more stable as tests are now sorted deterministcally on file_name:line_number first (previously they were sorted on test text which could not guarantee a stable sort).

# Changes

## Major Changes
These are major changes that will need user intervention to migrate succesfully.

### Removed: Async Testing
As described in the [Ginkgo 2.0 Proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1h28ZknXRsTLPNNiOjdHIO-F2toCzq4xoZDXbfYaBdoQ/edit#heading=h.mzgqmkg24xoo) the Ginkgo 1.x implementation of asynchronous testing using a `Done` channel was a confusing source of test-pollution.  It is removed in Ginkgo 2.0.

In Ginkgo 2.0 tests of the form:

```
It("...", func(done Done) {
	// user test code to run asynchronously
	close(done) //signifies the test is done
}, timeout)
```

will emit a deprecation warning and will run **synchronously**.  This means the `timeout` will not be enforced and the status of the `Done` channel will be ignored - a test that hangs will hang indefinitely.

#### Migration Strategy:
We recommend users make targeted use of Gomega's [Asynchronous Assertions](https://onsi.github.io/gomega/#making-asynchronous-assertions) to better test asynchronous behavior.

As a first migration pass that produces **equivalent behavior** users can replace asynchronous tests with:

```
It("...", func() {
	done := make(chan interface{})
	go func() {
		// user test code to run asynchronously
		close(done) //signifies the code is done
	}()
	Eventually(done, timeout).Should(BeClosed())
})
```

### Removed: Measure
As described in the [Ginkgo 2.0 Proposal](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1h28ZknXRsTLPNNiOjdHIO-F2toCzq4xoZDXbfYaBdoQ/edit#heading=h.2ezhpn4gmcgs) the Ginkgo 1.x implementation of benchmarking using `Measure` nodes was a source of tightly-coupled complexity.  It is removed in Ginkgo 2.0.

In Ginkgo 2.0 tests of the form:
```
Measure(..., func(b Benchmarker) {
	// user benchmark code
})
```

will emit a deprecation warning and **will no longer run**.

#### Migration Strategy:
A new Gomega benchmarking subpackage is being developed to replace Ginkgo's benchmarking capabilities with a more mature, decoupled, and useful implementation.  This section will be updated once the Gomega package is ready.

### Removed: Custom Reporters
Ginkgo 2.0 removes support for custom reporters.  Instead, the reporting infrastructure has been significantly improved to enable simpler support for the most common use-cases and custom reporting needs.

Please read through the [Improved: Reporting Infrastructure](#improved-reporting-infrastructure) section to learn more.  For users with custom reporters, follow the migration guide below.

#### Migration Strategy:
TODO
- for junit/teamcity, use the flags or the helper functions and ReportAftersuite
- for custom reporters: ReportAfterSuite should be enough, you can even wrap it with the ReportViaDeprecatedReporter method.  But this will be removed in a future release.
- If you really need real-time reporting, use ReportAfterEach

### Changed: CurrentGinkgoTestDescription()
`CurrentGinkgoTestDescription()` has been deprecated and will be removed in a future release.  The method was returning a processed object that included a subset of information available about the running test.

It has been replaced with `CurrentSpecReport()` which returns the full-fledge `types.SpecReport` used by Ginkgo's reporting infrastructure.  To help users migrate, `types.SpecReport` now includes a number of helper methods to make it easier to extract information about the running test.

#### Migration Strategy:
Replace any calls to `CurrentGinkgoTestDescription()` with `CurrentSpecReport()` and use the struct fields or helper methods on the returned `types.SpecReport` to get the information you need about the current test.


### Changed: Command Line Flags
All camel case flags (e.g. `-randomizeAllSpecs`) are replaced with kebab case flags (e.g. `-randomize-all-specs`) in Ginkgo 2.0.  The camel case versions continue to work but emit a deprecation warning.

#### Migration Strategy:
Users should update any scripts they have that invoke the `ginkgo` cli from camel case to kebab case (:camel: :arrow_right: :oden:).

### Removed: `-stream`
`-stream` was originally introduce in Ginkgo 1.x to force parallel test processes to emit output simultaneously in order to help debug hanging test issues.  With improvements to Ginkgo's interrupt handling and parallel test reporting this behavior is no longer necessary and has been removed.

### Removed: `-notify`
`-notify` instructed Ginkgo to emit desktop notifications on linux and MacOS.  This feature was rarely used and has been removed.

### Removed: `-noisyPendings` and `-noisySkippings`
Both these flags tweaked the reporter's behavior for pending and skipped tests.  A similar, and more intuitive, outcome is possible using `--succinct` and `-v`.

### Removed: `-debug`
The `-debug` flag has been removed.  It functioned primarily as a band-aid to Ginkgo V1's poor handling of stuck parallel tests. The new [interrupt behavior](#interrupt-behavior) in V2 resolves the root issues behind the `-debug` flag.

#### Migration Strategy:
Users should remove -stream from any scripts they have that invoke the `ginkgo` cli.

### Removed: `ginkgo convert`
The `ginkgo convert` subcommand in V1 could convert an existing set of Go tests into a Ginkgo test suite, wrapping each `TestX` function in an `It`.  This subcommand added complexity to the codebase and was infrequently used.  It has been removed.  Users who want to convert tests suites over to Ginkgo will need to do so by hand.

## Minor Changes
These are minor changes that will be transparent for most users.

- `"top level"` is no longer the first element in `types.SpecReport.NodeTexts`.  This will only affect users who write custom reporters.

- The output format of Ginkgo's Default Reporter has changed in numerous subtle ways to improve readability and the user experience.  Users who were scraping Ginkgo output programatically may need to change their scripts or use the new JSON formatted report option (TODO: update with link once JSON reporting is implemented).

- When running in series and verbose mode (i.e. `ginkgo -v`) GinkgoWriter output is emitted in real-time (existing behavior) but also emitted in the failure message for failed tests.  This allows for consistent failure messages regardless of verbosity settings and also makes it possible for the resulting JSON report to include captured GinkgoWriter information.

- Removed `ginkgo blur` alias.  Use `ginkgo unfocus` instead.
